{:.no_toc}

## Overview
<p align="justify">
In this paper, we present ControlSpeech, a text-to-speech (TTS) system capable of fully cloning the speaker's voice and enabling arbitrary control and adjustment of speaking style, merely based on a few seconds of audio prompt and a simple textual style description prompt. Prior zero-shot TTS models and controllable TTS models either could only mimic the speaker's voice without further control and adjustment capabilities or were unrelated to speaker-specific voice generation. Therefore, ControlSpeech focuses on a more challenging new task—a TTS system with controllable timbre, content, and style at the same time. ControlSpeech takes speech prompts, content prompts, and style prompts as inputs and utilizes bidirectional attention and mask-based parallel decoding to capture corresponding codec representations in a discrete decoupling codec space. Moreover, we discovered the issue of text style controllability in a many-to-many mapping fashion and proposed the SMSD module to resolve this problem. SMSD module which is based on Gaussian mixture density networks, is designed to further mix sample style semantic information and generate speech with more diverse styles. In terms of experiments, we open source a controllable model toolkit called ControlToolkit with a new style controllable dataset, some replicated baseline models and propose new metrics to evaluate both the control capability and the quality of generated audio in ControlSpeech. The relevant ablation studies validate the necessity of each component in ControlSpeech is necessary.  We hope that ControlSpeech can establish the next foundation paradigm of controllable speech synthesis. 
</p>
